In this lecture we will learn about scalable vector graphics commonly referred to by the acronym as
Viji unscalable vector graphic is useful because it is able to scale up and down without any loss in
resolution.
It is invaluable in that it will look the same at any screen size without any loss in graphic quality
to create an SVGA element.
We use that as Viji tag inside of the starting SVGA tag we need to specify a width and height for our
SVGA element.
Next we add a tag as content of our SVGA element of the shape we are trying to draw.
If we want to draw a rectangle we could use direct tag.
We will also give our rectangle a within a height then we will run our code in the web browser.
You can see the rectangle as Viji that we created displayed on the webpage.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
We can also use SVGA to draw other shapes.
For example a circle we also need to give our circle an x and y position specified by the C X and see
y attributes as well as the radius specified by the R attribute to see or circle so far.
Let's jump to the web browser and run our code as you can see the circle SVGA that we created is displayed
on the web page.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can also include the fill attribute to give our circle of fill of a specified color.
Let's use the fill attribute and give it a value of red then we will go to the web browser and run our
code as you can see.
Our circle is now filled in the color red.
Then we will go back to the editor as Viji also allows us to render text to our web page using the text
tag we need to specify the x and y attributes which are the X and Y positions to render this text on
the screen as content to this text element we will specify the text we want to display by typing it
between the opening and closing text tags.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our text SPG was added to the web page.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can change the size of our text by using the font size attribute.
Let's change the font size of our text and then run our code in the browser as you can see the font
size was updated.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can change the color of our text by using the fill attribute.
Let's use the fill attribute to color our text then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
You will notice that our text is now the color that we specified using the fel attribute.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
Additionally we can specify what font we want the text to render and by using the font family attribute
for example specifying a value of Aeriel will make or text display in every Alfon
you may be wondering which is better for you to use one of rendering to the browser and HVM l can visit
or scalable vector graphics.
Both of these approaches to rendering have their own advantages disadvantages and ideal use cases you
can embed SVGA directly into your HVM L to draw shapes and render text with the canvas you need to use
some javascript to draw to the canvas context.
The canvas is rendered pixel by pixel and is therefore resolution dependent.
The images that you add to the canvas cannot be scaled up or down indefinitely without losing some image
quality.
In contrast all SPG elements can be drawn at any resolution without losing quality as they are vector
based images instead of pixel based.
The canvas is good for rendering interactive games and complex animations as Viji is good for rendering
static images to the webpage in the next lecture.
We will look at a recap of what we learned in this section.